>> Kyle Simpson: So what do we need?
Your instinct might be to say because
we're talking about immutability, aha!
We need an immutable data structure.
No, we don't.
Because what we need right now is,
we just need to say that
this value is read only.
And that is a different sort
of a claim then asking for
it to be an immutable data structure.
And I know that seems counterintuitive,
but hang with me because we're gonna talk
about what immutable data
structures are about.
And I'm gonna say,
right now we're focused only on the claim.
Could I say that this thing is read only?
That it can not be mutated in any way,
because I think a lot of times when people
think, I guess I need a mutable data
structure, actually what they need
is just a read only data structure.
A data structure that can be read,
but can not be written to and
those are different than
immutable data structures.
So it turns out, it's built into
the language there is a way to have
a read only data structure pretty simple
and that is to call Object.freeze.
Object.freeze as you see on line 11 is
telling that object you should change all
of your properties to have
the read only attribute on them so
that none of them can be changed.
The object can't have properties added,
it can't have properties deleted.
It is, however, only shallow,
so be aware that if you have
nested objects of nested objects of nested
objects of arrays you would have to
freeze each one of those levels to
get that same level of guarantee.
But in our simple case, where we
have a simple, single layer object.
A simple call to Object.freeze
gives us the guarantee.
But I'm actually going to make
a slightly even different claim.
I literally don't care if Object.freeze
actually does what it's supposed to do.
I mean it can be like
an empty [INAUDIBLE].
The real point is that I am
communicating something to the reader of
the code at this point.
It is less important to me that
it actually be read only, and
more important to me that
the reader be able to know,
I am saying you don't have to
worry about this thing changing.
As a matter of fact,
it'd be nice if the language gave us
some sort of syntactic facility for
that, maybe an operator when we make
an object or when we pass it or something.
They're not ever going to
probably add something like this.
But, you know, harebrained idea, but
it'd be nice if there was even a lighter
weight way than saying Object.freeze.
But basically what I want is
an annotation that tells the reader,
you don't have to worry,
it's not gonna be modified.
It's read only.
You don't have to worry about it being
mutated in some way that you don't expect.
Another good part is that object freeze
does actually do what it's supposed to do.
So it gives us not only the signal to it,
but
it enforces it from a runtime perspective.
That if process order where to try
to do something that it shouldn't,
the whole program's gonna blow up and
an exception is gonna be thrown.
Now, the reason why I say I don't
actually care about that part is,
because it is vanishingly rare,
that something like that,
like trying to reassign to a property
that was actually said is read-only.
It's rare that,
that's been wrapped in some try-catch and
gracefully surfaced to the user as a,
oops, something went wrong.
Because if that occurs, if you pass in
a read only data structure to process
order and process order is in the habit
of wanting to mutate the thing,
then you have a fatal,
unrecoverable bug in your program.
>> Kyle Simpson: It's the kind of thing
that we'd like a linter to catch for
us and maybe depending on what kind of,
you know, programming language or
if you're using a type script or
something like that,
maybe you can get linter static checker
to sort of tell you, about that problem.
But, if it passed in, as a read only, and
then process order tried to catch it,
that's gonna create a fatal
error condition and
you the developer gonna fix it.
What I'm really concerned about is when
we don't have those fatal errors, but
we have those subtle crappy bugs that
are really, really hard to debug.
The user's still able to check out but
it charged them $1 extra on
the order than it should have.
And nobody can figure out where
that extra dollar came from.
Those are the terrible bugs, aren't they?
They're the ones where there wasn't
a fatal crash but it was still a bug and
it's really hard to reproduce
the conditions for that.
And one of the ways that we avoid
those sorts of things is by telling
the reader of this code or at least,
whether we avoid the bug or not,
at least make it easier to diagnose, as we
tell the reader, you don't have to worry,
the object didn't change at this point,
it's not gonna change.